TERRAINIST
End goal: marketable website, text->minecraft world .zip for an affordable price

How it works: We leverage LLMs for creative flexibility, who guide
old-fashioned (but *extremely* advanced) deterministic generators.

The crux of the project: We create a new "spec"/language, capable of holding
extreme detail, that deterministically translates into a full minecraft world.
We use LLMs to generate a spec based on a prompt.

Flow might look like:
User types prompt: "ruined, ancient city that worshipped cats as gods"
Opus 5 @ high reasoning makes a high level plan capturing the directon
in a structured, standardized form.
GLM 5.2 @ high reasoning implements. The end-result spec is the culmination of
many, many agents decomposing, subdividing, picking up smaller digestable bits,
and it ultimately being reassembled at the end. It's crucial the spec is highly
modular for this reason.

When handed a task, an agent makes a decision whether or not to subdivide further.
Agents also have access to an ai 3d model generator (based on tripo) for
structures that are unique/cannot be defined with a set of rules/code.
Examples:
    Goal: generate spec for a city with [desc, details] at [location].
        GLM reasoning: The city contains many important disinct landmarks such as
        the cat-shaped cathedral, town hall, and so on. I'll divide:
            cat-shaped cathedral
            town hall
            general residential area
            etc...
    Now, lower on the chain:
    Goal: generate spec for cat-shaped cathedral
        GLM reasoning: This is a good use of the 3d model generator. I'll write a
        prompt.
    Goal: generate a town hall:
        No more subdivision warranted. I'll generate a detail spec.
    Goal: general residential area:
        Nothing standout here, so I'll write a procedural generator.
        !!! this is important
        What's nice about a house just being a set of rules, is that an LLM could
        write a program that deterministically create a whole town with unique,
        but similar houses by writing a generator for the spec/rule-based language.
        Alternatively, the spec could include a feature to generate a town where you
        set creative guidance and it generates a whole town for you.
        Maybe? We end up with that, or a combo.
    and so on.
Stuff must be able to be placed in specific places in relation to each other whilst
not relying on LLMs to just output exact coords for everything.
For development: we can use https://github.com/misode/deepslate for headless renders
for autonomous work.

Limitations:
    - LLMs (no offense) haven't quite perfected arbitrary voxel generation yet, which
    is a skill necessary to write the spec. A fair bit of human involvement and
    expirementation with different techniques is expected
    - Handling variance. I want to ultimately make a service that generate your most
    wacky requests. Also, I want worlds to feel alive and unique. I don't want all
    structures to be one standard boxy house design.
        - One advanced idea to keep in mind: Suppose the user requests something like
        "an world with 1000 card dealerships, but instead of cars, there are cyborg-
        unicorns with wheels." We could have a powerful model (eg. opus 5) extend the
        spec *on the fly* to support a new customizable class of cyborg-wheeled-
        unicorns. But I think we should save that for an expirement much later.
    - Integrating tripo 3d models:
        - We'll have to elegantly convert voxelized 3d models to minecraft 
        structures with correct color, texture and such.
        - Also what if we need to generate "a museum about the history of ice cream,
        that is inside a massive icecream cone". We'd have to generate the icecream
        cone and then carve it out, or something? I think it's possible but will be
        tricky.
        - However, I refuse to infinetely kick the can down the road forever for
        integrating ai generated 3d models. It's crucial to the project as it really
        brings worlds to life and makes it feel like "more than" a normal custom
        minecraft world generator.
    - Balancing capability & cost:
        - I think GLM 5.2 is capable enough while also being affordable, but that's
        subject to change as we get further into development.
    - Autonomous improvement in claude code:
        - In that past attempts, agents missed things that I only found once I loaded 
        up in minecraft and walked around the world. However, autonomous improvement
        is useful.
    - This is a new attempt with a fresh perspective at this project, I previously
    had less success. We can peek at the code for that *maybe* if there is a good
    reason, but I'd rather start uncontaminated.

Additional notes:
    - We need to be able to handle definitions for not just houses, but
        - A large sleuth of hundreds of structures: Churches, police stations,
        skyscrapers, shops, dirt huts, igloos, schools, walls, ships, cannons,
        castles, cards, airplanes, submarines, etc..
        - All different types of forests, foliage, rivers/oceans, rock formations,
        etc.
        - Caves, tunnels, undeground cities, so on.
        - Create coherent road/path layouts.
        - and much more.
        - If the user says "the church and town hall are connected by an undeground
        tunnel", it should be able to do that (that's one example of a field of 
        requests that must be handled.)
    - RESEARCH: What existing open source tools can we leverage for ALL aspects of
    this project.
    - Pinning down exact subdivision flow is tricky. It's a complex web of agents.
    Also parallization would be nice to speed things up.

Goals:
    0: Claude & Human detailed preliminary planning consult
        Give detailed opinions, recommend changes, a name and high level specification 
        for our "rule based minecraft world representation", and so on. Plan how
        to proceed.
    1: Scaffold project/repo setup
    2: Limited worldgen spec implemetation just handling base terrain.
    3: minimal e2e test w/opus 5 & glm 5.2
    4+: expand from there (plan this in more detail)
    TBD: package & market

I'll give you an openrouter & tripo key later when needed.

Agents: feel free to supercede this with more polished documentation if it
becomes outdated, but preserve it somewhere as a historical reference no matter what.